README.md, before:

# k3sup 🚀 (said 'ketchup')

k3sup is a light-weight utility to get from zero to KUBECONFIG with [k3s](https://k3s.io/) on any local or remote VM. All you need is `ssh` access and the `k3sup` binary to get `kubectl` access immediately. `k3sup app install` then provides several tillerless-helm charts out of the box.

The tool is written in Go and is cross-compiled for Linux, Windows, MacOS and even on Raspberry Pi.

How do you say it? Ketchup, as in tomato.

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/alexellis/k3sup)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/alexellis/k3sup) [![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/alexellis/k3sup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alexellis/k3sup) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/alexellis/k3sup?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/alexellis/k3sup) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![GitHub All Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/alexellis/k3sup/total)

## What's this for? 💻

This tool uses `ssh` to install `k3s` to a remote Linux host. You can also use it to join existing Linux hosts into a k3s cluster as `agents`. First, `k3s` is installed using the utility script from Rancher, along with a flag for your host's public IP so that TLS works properly. The `kubeconfig` file on the server is then fetched and updated so that you can connect from your laptop using `kubectl`.

You may wonder why a tool like this needs to exist when you can do this sort of thing with bash.

k3sup was developed to automate what can be a very manual and confusing process for many developers, who are already short on time. Once you've provisioned a VM with your favourite tooling, `k3sup` means you are only 60 seconds away from running `kubectl get pods` on your own computer. With version 0.2.0, you can even `join` other nodes into any existing k3s cluster.

Uses:

* Bootstrap Kubernetes with k3s onto any VM - either manually, during CI or through `cloudinit`
* Get from zero to `kubectl` with `k3s` on Raspberry Pi (RPi), VMs, AWS EC2, Packet bare-metal, DigitalOcean, Civo, Scaleway, and others
* Fetch a working KUBECONFIG from an existing `k3s` cluster
* Join nodes into an existing `k3s` cluster with `k3sup join`
* Install selected helm charts without `tiller` with `k3sup app install`

![](./docs/k3sup-cloud.png)
*Conceptual architecture, showing `k3sup` running locally against any VM such as AWS EC2 or a VPS such as DigitalOcean.*

## Download `k3sup` (tl;dr)

`k3sup` is distributed as a static Go binary. You can use the installer on MacOS and Linux, or visit the [Releases page](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup/releases) to download the executable for Windows.

```sh
curl -sLS https://get.k3sup.dev | sh
sudo install k3sup /usr/local/bin/

k3sup --help
```
`k3sup` is made available free-of-charge, but you can support its ongoing development through [GitHub Sponsors](https://insiders.openfaas.io/) 💪

### A note for Windows users

Windows users can use `k3sup install` and `k3sup join` with a normal "Windows command prompt", but the `k3sup app install` feature needs to be run inside a [Git Bash](https://git-scm.com/downloads) terminal.

## Demo 📼

In the demo I install Kubernetes (`k3s`) onto two separate machines and get my `kubeconfig` downloaded to my laptop each time in around one minute.

1) Ubuntu 18.04 VM created on DigitalOcean with ssh key copied automatically
2) Raspberry Pi 4 with my ssh key copied over via `ssh-copy-id`

Watch the demo:

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/262630.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/262630)

## Who is the author? 👏

`k3sup` is Open Source Software (OSS) and was created by [Alex Ellis](https://www.alexellis.io/) - the Founder of [OpenFaaS &reg;](https://www.openfaas.com/) and a voluntary [CNCF Ambassador](https://www.cncf.io/people/ambassadors/).

Do you like `k3sup` or enjoy any of Alex's other work? 🍻

Join dozens of other developers 🏆 in supporting Alex and his work through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/users/alexellis/sponsorship) today. You'll get into the Insiders Track and access to regular email updates on all his work.

## Usage ✅

The `k3sup` tool is designed to be run on your desktop/laptop computer, but binaries are provided for MacOS, Windows, and Linux (including ARM).

### 👑 Setup a Kubernetes *server* with `k3sup`

You can setup a server and stop here, or go on to use the `join` command to add some "agents" aka `nodes` or `workers` into the cluster to expand its compute capacity.

Provision a new VM running a compatible operating system such as Ubuntu, Debian, Raspbian, or something else. Make sure that you opt-in to copy your registered SSH keys over to the new VM or host automatically.

> Note: You can copy ssh keys to a remote VM with `ssh-copy-id user@IP`.

Imagine the IP was `192.168.0.1` and the username was `ubuntu`, then you would run this:

* Run `k3sup`:

```sh
export IP=192.168.0.1
k3sup install --ip $IP --user ubuntu
```

Other options for `install`:

* `--skip-install` - if you already have k3s installed, you can just run this command to get the `kubeconfig`
* `--ssh-key` - specify a specific path for the SSH key for remote login
* `--local-path` - default is `./kubeconfig` - set the file where you want to save your cluster's `kubeconfig`.  By default this file will be overwritten.
* `--merge` - Merge config into existing file instead of overwriting (e.g. to add config to the default kubectl config, use `--local-path ~/.kube/config --merge`).
* `--context` - default is `default` - set the name of the kubeconfig context.
* `--ssh-port` - default is `22`, but you can specify an alternative port i.e. `2222`
* `--k3s-extra-args` - Optional extra arguments to pass to k3s installer, wrapped in quotes, i.e. `--k3s-extra-args '--no-deploy traefik'` or `--k3s-extra-args '---docker'`.
* `--k3s-version` - set the specific version of k3s, i.e. `v0.9.1`
* See even more install options by running `k3sup install --help`.

* Now try the access:

```sh
export KUBECONFIG=`pwd`/kubeconfig
kubectl get node
```

### 🎬 Install an `app` with `k3sup`

Install apps with `k3sup` `>=0.4.0` directly into any Kubernetes cluster, all you need is `kubectl` access.

You can install [openfaas](https://github.com/openfaas/faas) for Kubernetes in a single command, it will detect whether you're using a Raspberry Pi or a regular computer.

```sh
# OpenFaaS - microservices and functions for Kubernetes, PC, RPi, ARM64
k3sup app install openfaas

# Metrics for Pods and Nodes, PC only
k3sup app install metrics-server

# Get a public IP / Service LoadBalancer via DigitalOcean
# or Packet.com, PC Only
k3sup app install inlets-operator

# cert-manager - obtain free TLS certificates from LetsEncrypt, PC only
k3sup app install cert-manager

# nginx - install the Nginx IngressController, PC only
k3sup app install nginx-ingress
```

Find out more:

```sh
k3sup app --help
k3sup app install --help
k3sup app install APP_NAME --help
```

Want to request an app? [Raise an issue](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup/issues) or let me know on [Slack](https://slack.openfaas.io).

### 😸 Join some agents to your Kubernetes server

Let's say that you have a server, and have already run the following:

```sh
export SERVER_IP=192.168.0.100
export USER=root

k3sup install --ip $SERVER_IP --user $USER
```

Next join one or more `agents` to the cluster:

```sh
export AGENT_IP=192.168.0.101

export SERVER_IP=192.168.0.100
export USER=root

k3sup join --ip $AGENT_IP --server-ip $SERVER_IP --user $USER
```

That's all, so with the above command you can have a two-node cluster up and running, whether that's using VMs on-premises, using Raspberry Pis, 64-bit ARM or even cloud VMs on EC2.

### 👨‍💻 Micro-tutorial for Raspberry Pi (2, 3, or 4) 🥧

In a few moments you will have Kubernetes up and running on your Raspberry Pi 2, 3 or 4. Stand by for the fastest possible install. At the end you will have a KUBECONFIG file on your local computer that you can use to access your cluster remotely.

![](./docs/k3sup-rpi.png)
*Conceptual architecture, showing `k3sup` running locally against bare-metal ARM devices.*

* [Download etcher.io](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) for your OS

* Flash an SD card using [Raspbian Lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/)

* Enable SSH by creating an empty file named `ssh` in the boot partition

* Generate an ssh-key if you don't already have one with `ssh-keygen` (hit enter to all questions)

* Find the RPi IP with `ping -c raspberrypi.local`, then set `export SERVER_IP=""` with the IP

* Copy over your ssh key with: `ssh-copy-id pi@raspberrypi.local`

* Run `k3sup install --ip $SERVER_IP --user pi`

* Point at the config file and get the status of the node:

```sh
export KUBECONFIG=`pwd`/kubeconfig
kubectl get node -o wide
```

You now have `kubectl` access from your laptop to your Raspberry Pi running k3s.

If you want to join some nodes, run `export IP=""` for each additional RPi, followed by:

* `k3sup join --ip $IP --server-ip $SERVER_IP --user pi`

> Remember all these commands are run from your computer, not the RPi.

Now where next? I would recommend my detailed tutorial where I spend time looking at how to flash the SD card, deploy k3s, deploy OpenFaaS (for some useful microservices), and then get incoming HTTP traffic.

Try it now: [Will it cluster? K3s on Raspbian](https://blog.alexellis.io/test-drive-k3s-on-raspberry-pi/)

## Caveats on security

If you are using public cloud, then make sure you see the notes from the Rancher team on setting up a Firewall or Security Group.

k3s docs: [k3s configuration / open ports](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/configuration/#open-ports-network-security)

## If your ssh-key is password-protected

If the ssh-key is encrypted the first step is to try to connect to the ssh-agent. If this works, it will be used to connect to the server.
If the ssh-agent is not running, the user will be prompted for the password of the ssh-key.

On most Linux systems and MacOS, ssh-agent is automatically configured and executed at login. No additional actions are required to use it.

To start the ssh-agent manually and add your key run the following commands:

```
eval `ssh-agent`
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

You can now just run k3sup as usual. No special parameters are necessary.

```
k3sup --ip $IP --user user
```

## Contributing

### Say thanks ☕️ 👏

Show your support for `k3sup` and through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/users/alexellis/sponsorship) today, pay whatever you want.

### Blog posts & tweets

Blogs posts, tutorials, and Tweets about k3sup (`#k3sup`) are appreciated. Please send a PR to the README.md file to add yours.

### Contributing via GitHub

Before contributing code, please see the [CONTRIBUTING guide](https://github.com/alexellis/inlets/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Note that k3sup uses the same guide as [inlets.dev](https://inlets.dev/).

Both Issues and PRs have their own templates. Please fill out the whole template.

All commits must be signed-off as part of the [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org)

### License

MIT

## 📢 What are people saying about `k3sup`?

* [Multi-node Kubernetes on Civo in 5 minutes flat with k3sup!](https://www.civo.com/learn/kubernetes-on-civo-in-5-minutes-flat) - Civo Learn guide

* [Zero to k3s Kubeconfig in seconds on AWS EC2 with k3sup](https://rancher.com/blog/2019/k3s-kubeconfig-in-seconds) by Saiyam Pathak

* [Create a 3-node k3s cluster with k3sup & DigitalOcean](https://blog.alexellis.io/create-a-3-node-k3s-cluster-with-k3sup-digitalocean/)

* [k3sup mentioned on Kubernetes Podcast episode 67](https://kubernetespodcast.com/episode/067-orka/) by Craig Box & Adam Glick

* Blog post by Ruan Bekker:

    > Provision k3s to all the places with a awesome utility called "k3sup" by @alexellisuk. Definitely worth checking it out, its epic!

    [Provision k3s on the fly with k3sup](https://sysadmins.co.za/provision-k3s-on-the-fly-with-k3sup/)

* [Dave Cadwallader (@geek_dave)](https://twitter.com/geek_dave/status/1162386683200851969?s=20):

    > Alex - Thanks so much for all the effort you put into your tools and tutorials.  My rpi homelab has been a valuable learning playground for CNCF tech thanks to you!

* [k3sup in KubeWeekly #181](https://kubeweekly.io/2019/08/22/kubeweekly-181/)

* [Will it cluster? K3s on Raspbian](https://blog.alexellis.io/test-drive-k3s-on-raspberry-pi/)

* Checkout the [Announcement tweet](https://twitter.com/alexellisuk/status/1162272786250735618?s=20)

## Similar tools & glossary

Glossary:

* Kubernetes: master/slave
* k3s: server/agent

Related tools:

* [k3s](https://github.com/rancher/k3s) - Kubernetes as installed by `k3sup`. k3s is a compliant, light-weight, multi-architecture distribution of Kubernetes. It can be used to run Kubernetes locally or remotely for development, or in edge locations.
* [k3d](https://github.com/rancher/k3d) - this tool runs a Docker container on your local laptop with k3s inside
* [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind) - kind can run a Kubernetes cluster within a Docker container for local development. k3s is also suitable for this purpose through `k3d`. KinD is not suitable for running a remote cluster for development.
* [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/) - a tool to create fully-loaded, production-ready Kubernetes clusters with or without high-availability (HA). Tends to be heavier-weight and slower than k3s. It is aimed at cloud VMs or bare-metal computers which means it doesn't always work well with low-powered ARM devices.
* [k3v](https://github.com/ibuildthecloud/k3v) - "virtual kubernetes" - a very early PoC from the author of k3s aiming to slice up a single cluster for multiple tenants

## Appendix

### `iptables`

> Note added by Eduardo Minguez Perez

Currently there is an issue in k3s involving `iptables >= 1.8` that can affect the network communication. See the [k3s issue](https://github.com/rancher/k3s/issues/703) and the corresponding [kubernetes one](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/71305) for more information and workarounds. The issue has been observed in Debian Buster but it can affect other distributions as well.

### Custom helm versions

Custom helm versions can be used with `k3sup app install`, if you set the environment variable `HELM_VERSION`

Commit message:

Simplifies code contributions by automating setup with Gitpod.

README.md, after:

# k3sup 🚀 (said 'ketchup')

k3sup is a light-weight utility to get from zero to KUBECONFIG with [k3s](https://k3s.io/) on any local or remote VM. All you need is `ssh` access and the `k3sup` binary to get `kubectl` access immediately. `k3sup app install` then provides several tillerless-helm charts out of the box.

The tool is written in Go and is cross-compiled for Linux, Windows, MacOS and even on Raspberry Pi.

How do you say it? Ketchup, as in tomato.

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/alexellis/k3sup)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/alexellis/k3sup) [![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/alexellis/k3sup.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alexellis/k3sup) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/alexellis/k3sup?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/alexellis/k3sup) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![GitHub All Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/alexellis/k3sup/total)
[![Setup Automated](https://img.shields.io/badge/setup-automated-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/from-referrer/)

## What's this for? 💻

This tool uses `ssh` to install `k3s` to a remote Linux host. You can also use it to join existing Linux hosts into a k3s cluster as `agents`. First, `k3s` is installed using the utility script from Rancher, along with a flag for your host's public IP so that TLS works properly. The `kubeconfig` file on the server is then fetched and updated so that you can connect from your laptop using `kubectl`.

You may wonder why a tool like this needs to exist when you can do this sort of thing with bash.

k3sup was developed to automate what can be a very manual and confusing process for many developers, who are already short on time. Once you've provisioned a VM with your favourite tooling, `k3sup` means you are only 60 seconds away from running `kubectl get pods` on your own computer. With version 0.2.0, you can even `join` other nodes into any existing k3s cluster.

Uses:

* Bootstrap Kubernetes with k3s onto any VM - either manually, during CI or through `cloudinit`
* Get from zero to `kubectl` with `k3s` on Raspberry Pi (RPi), VMs, AWS EC2, Packet bare-metal, DigitalOcean, Civo, Scaleway, and others
* Fetch a working KUBECONFIG from an existing `k3s` cluster
* Join nodes into an existing `k3s` cluster with `k3sup join`
* Install selected helm charts without `tiller` with `k3sup app install`

![](./docs/k3sup-cloud.png)
*Conceptual architecture, showing `k3sup` running locally against any VM such as AWS EC2 or a VPS such as DigitalOcean.*

## Download `k3sup` (tl;dr)

`k3sup` is distributed as a static Go binary. You can use the installer on MacOS and Linux, or visit the [Releases page](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup/releases) to download the executable for Windows.

```sh
curl -sLS https://get.k3sup.dev | sh
sudo install k3sup /usr/local/bin/

k3sup --help
```
`k3sup` is made available free-of-charge, but you can support its ongoing development through [GitHub Sponsors](https://insiders.openfaas.io/) 💪

### A note for Windows users

Windows users can use `k3sup install` and `k3sup join` with a normal "Windows command prompt", but the `k3sup app install` feature needs to be run inside a [Git Bash](https://git-scm.com/downloads) terminal.

## Demo 📼

In the demo I install Kubernetes (`k3s`) onto two separate machines and get my `kubeconfig` downloaded to my laptop each time in around one minute.

1) Ubuntu 18.04 VM created on DigitalOcean with ssh key copied automatically
2) Raspberry Pi 4 with my ssh key copied over via `ssh-copy-id`

Watch the demo:

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/262630.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/262630)

## Who is the author? 👏

`k3sup` is Open Source Software (OSS) and was created by [Alex Ellis](https://www.alexellis.io/) - the Founder of [OpenFaaS &reg;](https://www.openfaas.com/) and a voluntary [CNCF Ambassador](https://www.cncf.io/people/ambassadors/).

Do you like `k3sup` or enjoy any of Alex's other work? 🍻

Join dozens of other developers 🏆 in supporting Alex and his work through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/users/alexellis/sponsorship) today. You'll get into the Insiders Track and access to regular email updates on all his work.

## Usage ✅

The `k3sup` tool is designed to be run on your desktop/laptop computer, but binaries are provided for MacOS, Windows, and Linux (including ARM).

### 👑 Setup a Kubernetes *server* with `k3sup`

You can setup a server and stop here, or go on to use the `join` command to add some "agents" aka `nodes` or `workers` into the cluster to expand its compute capacity.

Provision a new VM running a compatible operating system such as Ubuntu, Debian, Raspbian, or something else. Make sure that you opt-in to copy your registered SSH keys over to the new VM or host automatically.

> Note: You can copy ssh keys to a remote VM with `ssh-copy-id user@IP`.

Imagine the IP was `192.168.0.1` and the username was `ubuntu`, then you would run this:

* Run `k3sup`:

```sh
export IP=192.168.0.1
k3sup install --ip $IP --user ubuntu
```

Other options for `install`:

* `--skip-install` - if you already have k3s installed, you can just run this command to get the `kubeconfig`
* `--ssh-key` - specify a specific path for the SSH key for remote login
* `--local-path` - default is `./kubeconfig` - set the file where you want to save your cluster's `kubeconfig`.  By default this file will be overwritten.
* `--merge` - Merge config into existing file instead of overwriting (e.g. to add config to the default kubectl config, use `--local-path ~/.kube/config --merge`).
* `--context` - default is `default` - set the name of the kubeconfig context.
* `--ssh-port` - default is `22`, but you can specify an alternative port i.e. `2222`
* `--k3s-extra-args` - Optional extra arguments to pass to k3s installer, wrapped in quotes, i.e. `--k3s-extra-args '--no-deploy traefik'` or `--k3s-extra-args '---docker'`.
* `--k3s-version` - set the specific version of k3s, i.e. `v0.9.1`
* See even more install options by running `k3sup install --help`.

* Now try the access:

```sh
export KUBECONFIG=`pwd`/kubeconfig
kubectl get node
```

### 🎬 Install an `app` with `k3sup`

Install apps with `k3sup` `>=0.4.0` directly into any Kubernetes cluster, all you need is `kubectl` access.

You can install [openfaas](https://github.com/openfaas/faas) for Kubernetes in a single command, it will detect whether you're using a Raspberry Pi or a regular computer.

```sh
# OpenFaaS - microservices and functions for Kubernetes, PC, RPi, ARM64
k3sup app install openfaas

# Metrics for Pods and Nodes, PC only
k3sup app install metrics-server

# Get a public IP / Service LoadBalancer via DigitalOcean
# or Packet.com, PC Only
k3sup app install inlets-operator

# cert-manager - obtain free TLS certificates from LetsEncrypt, PC only
k3sup app install cert-manager

# nginx - install the Nginx IngressController, PC only
k3sup app install nginx-ingress
```

Find out more:

```sh
k3sup app --help
k3sup app install --help
k3sup app install APP_NAME --help
```

Want to request an app? [Raise an issue](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup/issues) or let me know on [Slack](https://slack.openfaas.io).

### 😸 Join some agents to your Kubernetes server

Let's say that you have a server, and have already run the following:

```sh
export SERVER_IP=192.168.0.100
export USER=root

k3sup install --ip $SERVER_IP --user $USER
```

Next join one or more `agents` to the cluster:

```sh
export AGENT_IP=192.168.0.101

export SERVER_IP=192.168.0.100
export USER=root

k3sup join --ip $AGENT_IP --server-ip $SERVER_IP --user $USER
```

That's all, so with the above command you can have a two-node cluster up and running, whether that's using VMs on-premises, using Raspberry Pis, 64-bit ARM or even cloud VMs on EC2.

### 👨‍💻 Micro-tutorial for Raspberry Pi (2, 3, or 4) 🥧

In a few moments you will have Kubernetes up and running on your Raspberry Pi 2, 3 or 4. Stand by for the fastest possible install. At the end you will have a KUBECONFIG file on your local computer that you can use to access your cluster remotely.

![](./docs/k3sup-rpi.png)
*Conceptual architecture, showing `k3sup` running locally against bare-metal ARM devices.*

* [Download etcher.io](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) for your OS

* Flash an SD card using [Raspbian Lite](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/)

* Enable SSH by creating an empty file named `ssh` in the boot partition

* Generate an ssh-key if you don't already have one with `ssh-keygen` (hit enter to all questions)

* Find the RPi IP with `ping -c raspberrypi.local`, then set `export SERVER_IP=""` with the IP

* Copy over your ssh key with: `ssh-copy-id pi@raspberrypi.local`

* Run `k3sup install --ip $SERVER_IP --user pi`

* Point at the config file and get the status of the node:

```sh
export KUBECONFIG=`pwd`/kubeconfig
kubectl get node -o wide
```

You now have `kubectl` access from your laptop to your Raspberry Pi running k3s.

If you want to join some nodes, run `export IP=""` for each additional RPi, followed by:

* `k3sup join --ip $IP --server-ip $SERVER_IP --user pi`

> Remember all these commands are run from your computer, not the RPi.

Now where next? I would recommend my detailed tutorial where I spend time looking at how to flash the SD card, deploy k3s, deploy OpenFaaS (for some useful microservices), and then get incoming HTTP traffic.

Try it now: [Will it cluster? K3s on Raspbian](https://blog.alexellis.io/test-drive-k3s-on-raspberry-pi/)

## Caveats on security

If you are using public cloud, then make sure you see the notes from the Rancher team on setting up a Firewall or Security Group.

k3s docs: [k3s configuration / open ports](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/configuration/#open-ports-network-security)

## If your ssh-key is password-protected

If the ssh-key is encrypted the first step is to try to connect to the ssh-agent. If this works, it will be used to connect to the server.
If the ssh-agent is not running, the user will be prompted for the password of the ssh-key.

On most Linux systems and MacOS, ssh-agent is automatically configured and executed at login. No additional actions are required to use it.

To start the ssh-agent manually and add your key run the following commands:

```
eval `ssh-agent`
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

You can now just run k3sup as usual. No special parameters are necessary.

```
k3sup --ip $IP --user user
```

## Contributing

### Say thanks ☕️ 👏

Show your support for `k3sup` and through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/users/alexellis/sponsorship) today, pay whatever you want.

### Blog posts & tweets

Blogs posts, tutorials, and Tweets about k3sup (`#k3sup`) are appreciated. Please send a PR to the README.md file to add yours.

### Contributing via GitHub

Before contributing code, please see the [CONTRIBUTING guide](https://github.com/alexellis/inlets/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Note that k3sup uses the same guide as [inlets.dev](https://inlets.dev/).

Both Issues and PRs have their own templates. Please fill out the whole template.

All commits must be signed-off as part of the [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org)

### Contribute from the Browser with a single Click

For contributing you can also use Gitpod( a free online ide ), with a single click it will launch a ready to code workspace with everything setup so that you can start coding straight away.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup)

### License

MIT

## 📢 What are people saying about `k3sup`?

* [Multi-node Kubernetes on Civo in 5 minutes flat with k3sup!](https://www.civo.com/learn/kubernetes-on-civo-in-5-minutes-flat) - Civo Learn guide

* [Zero to k3s Kubeconfig in seconds on AWS EC2 with k3sup](https://rancher.com/blog/2019/k3s-kubeconfig-in-seconds) by Saiyam Pathak

* [Create a 3-node k3s cluster with k3sup & DigitalOcean](https://blog.alexellis.io/create-a-3-node-k3s-cluster-with-k3sup-digitalocean/)

* [k3sup mentioned on Kubernetes Podcast episode 67](https://kubernetespodcast.com/episode/067-orka/) by Craig Box & Adam Glick

* Blog post by Ruan Bekker:

    > Provision k3s to all the places with a awesome utility called "k3sup" by @alexellisuk. Definitely worth checking it out, its epic!

    [Provision k3s on the fly with k3sup](https://sysadmins.co.za/provision-k3s-on-the-fly-with-k3sup/)

* [Dave Cadwallader (@geek_dave)](https://twitter.com/geek_dave/status/1162386683200851969?s=20):

    > Alex - Thanks so much for all the effort you put into your tools and tutorials.  My rpi homelab has been a valuable learning playground for CNCF tech thanks to you!

* [k3sup in KubeWeekly #181](https://kubeweekly.io/2019/08/22/kubeweekly-181/)

* [Will it cluster? K3s on Raspbian](https://blog.alexellis.io/test-drive-k3s-on-raspberry-pi/)

* Checkout the [Announcement tweet](https://twitter.com/alexellisuk/status/1162272786250735618?s=20)

## Similar tools & glossary

Glossary:

* Kubernetes: master/slave
* k3s: server/agent

Related tools:

* [k3s](https://github.com/rancher/k3s) - Kubernetes as installed by `k3sup`. k3s is a compliant, light-weight, multi-architecture distribution of Kubernetes. It can be used to run Kubernetes locally or remotely for development, or in edge locations.
* [k3d](https://github.com/rancher/k3d) - this tool runs a Docker container on your local laptop with k3s inside
* [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind) - kind can run a Kubernetes cluster within a Docker container for local development. k3s is also suitable for this purpose through `k3d`. KinD is not suitable for running a remote cluster for development.
* [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/) - a tool to create fully-loaded, production-ready Kubernetes clusters with or without high-availability (HA). Tends to be heavier-weight and slower than k3s. It is aimed at cloud VMs or bare-metal computers which means it doesn't always work well with low-powered ARM devices.
* [k3v](https://github.com/ibuildthecloud/k3v) - "virtual kubernetes" - a very early PoC from the author of k3s aiming to slice up a single cluster for multiple tenants

## Appendix

### `iptables`

> Note added by Eduardo Minguez Perez

Currently there is an issue in k3s involving `iptables >= 1.8` that can affect the network communication. See the [k3s issue](https://github.com/rancher/k3s/issues/703) and the corresponding [kubernetes one](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/71305) for more information and workarounds. The issue has been observed in Debian Buster but it can affect other distributions as well.

### Custom helm versions

Custom helm versions can be used with `k3sup app install`, if you set the environment variable `HELM_VERSION`
